---
title: Y'all Boys Talked
date: 2020-01-09
canonical_url: false
published: false
description: "Last year, three of my closest friends and I started a podcast."
cover_image: ./images/yall-boys-talkin.jpg
---

Last year, three of my closest friends and I started a [podcast](https://ybt.fm).

In lieu of self-imposed New Year's resolutions, the four of us created goals for each and one another. These goals were based on our personal aspirations, long lost hobbies we once dabbled in, or habits that were probably good for us. The challenge was to complete these goals in six months, right before our 10 year high school reunion.

What happened?

We each completed our assigned three goals, rewarded ourselves by renting a Tesla Model X, and had a truly great night with some old friends and a few moments of eco-friendly flexing. We then took a two month break to regroup and see what we could do for the next season.

The second time around we were much more ambitious, extending our goals to our local communities and upping the ante to harsh punishments should any of us fail to complete one or more of our challenges. This lead to a few...

##### Pain points.
<br>

**Weekly reminders of failure:**

**Coding a feed.xml by hand:**

If this sounds really dumb to you, it is. Otherwise, for context, `feed.xml` is typical an automatically generated file created by a website that has syndicated content like blogs, news articles, or of course podcasts. It's a dumb thing to do by hand because there's a lot of redundant data to include for different platforms, which means more meaningless work and more chances to make mistakes. Mistakes bad enough to have episodes publish hours after their expected time, throwing off a very calculated social media posting schedule (sorry, Frank).

So why do such a dumb thing? Are you dumb, Steve?

Maybe. But it was mostly out of procrastination which later became laziness which eventually became apathy. This was a big pain point in publishing episodes and I somehow let myself do it 19 times.

**Easy setup:**

You really don't need a whole lot to get started, in fact you probably have everything you need if you own a laptop.

- Audio editing software: Audition (free), Adobe Audition (not free)
- Microphone: Attached to laptop (free), Blue Snowball or Yeti ($40+)
- Cool name
- Cool host(s)
- Hosting for audio, feed, and possibly cool website


...

Suffice to say, I would do it all over again if given the chance. While we didn't complete our second set of challenges, what I valued most out of this was the guarantee in which every week I'd know that Y'all Boys talked.